the World Health Organization plans to
conduct a polio vaccine campaign in Gaza
after the virus was detected in
Wastewater the wh is going to send 1.2
million vaccines to Gaza with 600,000 of
those for children under the age of
eight now the first round of
vaccinations is scheduled to be rolled
out from August the 17th the who has
requested a ceasefire and humanitarian
groans to roll out the campaign Israel's
rejected the these requests in the past
on July the 21st Israel's military
announced it was going to start
vaccinating its soldiers in Gaza against
the threat of polio the who says Gaza
had a 99% vaccination rate before the
war and that's now dropped to 86%
leaving pockets of Children at Risk
Hamed Jafari is director of polio
eradication for Eastern Mediterranean
region at the who he's joining us live
from London thank you very much indeed
uh for being with us um in the event
that Israel doesn't allow for a pause in
the fight
to allow this roll out to go ahead which
is on a huge scale what are you going to
do so this is going to be a very um if
we do not have a
ceasefire and if the if sufficient
freedom of movement of health workers to
be able to plan the logistics and
operations and actually uh find all the
children and then vaccinate them if that
is not allowed uh the risk of this
outbreak spreading not only within Gaza
but outside of Gaza uh to other parts of
of occupied Palestinian territory Israel
and surrounding countries the risk who
assesses that risk to be very high and
while uh no cases of paralytic polio
have been detected so far that risk will
continue to increase especially among
the youngest children among infants who
have not been consistently getting their
uh vaccination because of the disruption
of the the uh
Service delivery in Gaza you were
mentioning before that part of the
process is obviously simply trying to
find people in order to be able to
inoculate them and you said that there
are 600,000 of the the vaccinations are
geared towards children under the age of
eight do you have the Staffing and the
facilities to be able to track people
down in order to be able to administer
the
vaccine so wh is working very closely
with the Ministry of Health of the
occupied Palestine in uh palestin
territory with UNICEF with unva and
other partners humanitarian actors that
are on the ground uh we obviously can't
do this uh do this alone there are
health workers on the ground and then we
will need to train the vaccinators who
will be going to vaccinate children and
ideally what we do in a situation of a
polio outbreak is to do house-to-house
vaccination campaigns that obviously is
elusive in the current situation in Gaza
where children are in shelters in in uh
uh overcrowded uh displaced camps uh so
we'll have to organize campaigns both
through Health Facilities through
temporary fix sites and where possible
go tent to tent or Camp to camp but it's
very important that this can the
planning for this to map where the
children are to move all the vaccines
and Logistics and then start vaccinating
children so that we can reach everybody
uh would not only require a ceasefire
and cessation of hostilities it would
require a significant freedom of
movement uh which is very difficult in
Gaza right now given all the heavy
checkpoints and the detentions that
happen at at checkpoints you touch
touched a moment ago on the possible
outcome in the event that you're not
able to carry this vaccination program
out just elaborate on that for us how
how bad could this
get this you know polio is an ongoing
Public Health Emergency of international
concern under the IH uh so it is a
public health emergency wherever polio
virus is detected so it's a public
health emergency in Gaza right now and
if it spreads out of Gaza into Israel
into other into West Bank it becomes a
public health emergency there Lebanon is
at risk Egypt is at risk Jordan is at
risk and other countries of the region
are at risk and with Travelers you
remember two years ago uh polio virus
was detected in suan London in New York
so this can spread very fast
internationally and most importantly
it's a direct threat to the children of
Gaza that this can start paralyzing
children very very rapidly Hamed Jafari
director of polio eradication for
Eastern Mediterranean region at the wh
thank you very much indeed for being
with
us thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer